Hello Cloud Gurus, and welcome to this lecture,
which is going to cover DynamoDB on-demand capacity.
So what is on-demand capacity? Well,
it's a pricing model for DynamoDB,
and with the on-demand capacity model,
charges will apply for reading and writing and storing your data
in DynamoDB.
And DynamoDB will instantly scale up and down based on the
activity of your application,
so based on the reads and writes to your table,
rather than you specifying a set number of read and write capacity
units when you first create the table.
So this gives you a lot of flexibility in terms of the capacity for your
DynamoDB table.
And this is great for unpredictable workloads,
new applications where you don't understand the use pattern yet,
and when you only want to pay for what you use,
or a kind of pay-per-request model.
So which pricing model should you use? Well,
you should use on-demand capacity when you have an unknown workload,
unpredictable application traffic,
the workload is spiky and you have short-lived peaks,
and when you want a pay-per-use model. However,
with on-demand capacity,
it might be more difficult to predict the costs that you will be paying for your
DynamoDB table,
because DynamoDB will be scaling up and down based on the number of reads and
writes. And the cost will be driven by the activity on your database,
rather than you specifying the read and write capacity units at the
beginning,
whereas you should use provisioned capacity when read and write capacity
requirements can be easily and accurately forecasted,
when you have predictable application traffic,
and when the application traffic is consistent or it increases gradually.
And with provisioned capacity, of course,
you have much more control over the cost of the capacity on your DynamoDB
table. So onto our exam tips,
and you just really need to understand the difference and when to use each
pricing model.
So use on-demand capacity when you've got unpredictable application traffic,
or if you require a pay-per-use model,
and use provisioned capacity when read and write capacity requirements
can be accurately forecasted,
when application traffic is consistent or it increases gradually.
And it's also a good option.
If you want to be more in control of your DynamoDB costs.
So that is the end of this lecture. If you have any questions,
please let me know. Otherwise, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.