Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture which is all about
CloudFront.
And CloudFront is Amazon's content delivery network or CDN.
And this is a theoretical lecture to introduce the main concepts
so that you have a good understanding before we go ahead and build our own
CloudFront distribution later on. So what is CloudFront?
Well, it is a content delivery network,
which is a system of distributed servers which deliver web pages
and other web content. And it's an easy,
and cost-effective way to distribute content with low latency and
high data-transfer speeds. So what does that mean? Well,
this is all about making your web pages faster and CloudFront speeds up the
distribution of your static and dynamic web content.
So HTML, JavaScript, image files, videos,
and web applications. So any web content that you can think of.
And it's a much more efficient and performant way for geographically
distributed users to access your content.
So how does it all hang together? Well,
imagine you are running a website located in the UK and
you have many users based all around the world.
And when a user browses to your website,
the request is routed through many different networks to reach your server
and the number of network hops and the distance the request needs to
travel have a significant impact on the performance
and responsiveness of your website.
And the network latency is going to be different for each different location.
And for users who are further away,
they are going to experience greater latency and
worse performance. So for example, users based in Australia,
they might experience worse performance and greater latency.
And they might think that the website seems less responsive than users based,
say in India, for example,
which is geographically closer to London.
So how can we improve performance and make it more consistent for
everybody. Well, this is where CloudFront comes in.
So imagine you're running a website from London and here are all your users.
Instead of each user accessing your website directly from the server in
London,
instead we introduce this concept of edge locations.
And an edge location is simply a collection of servers which are in
geographically-dispersed data centers.
And these edge locations are used by CloudFront to keep a cache of
copies of your objects. So copies of your HTML files,
your images, and the content that you are serving.
And this means that instead of requesting content from your server located in
London,
users can access that content from the edge location instead,
which is physically much closer to them than the main server in London.
So the way it works is that once the request is made,
the edge location forwards the request onto the server located in London
and it downloads the files requested and caches them locally. So
this means that next time the user requests the file,
or if another user comes along and wants to access the same file,
they can access directly from the edge location.
And this provides a much faster response time.
And it means that your requests are only going to the local edge location
and they're not going all the way to London.
So let's review some of the CloudFront terminology that you will need to know
for the exam. So, first of all,
we have CloudFront edge locations,
and this is the location where the content is cached.
And it's separate to an AWS region or availability zone.
And then we have the CloudFront origin.
And this is the origin of all the files that the distribution would serve.
And this can be an S3 bucket, an EC2 instance,
or an elastic load balancer, or route 53 address.
And it can also be your own server in your own data center.
And then finally, we have the CloudFront distribution.
And this is the name given to the origin and configuration settings for the
content that you wish to distribute using the CloudFront content delivery
network. And if we head back to our diagram,
here is our edge location. Here is our origin.
And the CloudFront distribution is the name given to the origin and
configuration settings for the content that we are distributing. Now,
the reason we use CloudFront is to improve the performance of a
website for remote users.
And you can deliver your entire website using CloudFront.
And AWS operates a global network of over 200 edge
locations. And with CloudFront,
requests for your content are automatically routed to the nearest
edge location. So content is delivered with the best possible performance,
no matter where your users are located in the world.
And this allows you to optimize performance for users accessing your website
from all around the world. And here at ACG,
we actually use CloudFront ourselves,
and we have a lot of users from Asia, Africa, North America,
South America, Europe, and Australia. And by using CloudFront,
that helps keep performance consistent for everybody. Now,
CloudFront is optimized to work with other AWS services.
So it's really well integrated with services like S3, EC2,
elastic load balancer, and Route 53.
And that makes it really easy to configure.
And it also works seamlessly with any non-AWS origin server,
which stores the original definitive versions of your files and your website.
Now with CloudFront,
objects are cached and they are cached for a period of time,
which is their time to live or TTL. And the default TTL
is one day. And when the TTL is up,
the object is automatically cleared from the cache.
Now you can clear an object from the cache yourself before the TTL is up,
but you will be charged for doing that. For example,
if you had a new version of an object,
a new image or new version of one of your webpages,
you can actually go in there and clear the cache yourself to make sure that when
your users try to access that file, they are going to get the latest version.
And CloudFront technology,
it's actually also used with another service called S3 transfer
acceleration. And S3 transfer acceleration enables fast, easy,
and secure transfers of files over long distances between your end
users and an S3 bucket.
So we can use CloudFront to accelerate the upload of files into
S3.
So you upload your file to the edge location and when it arrives at the edge
location,
it's routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.
So let's just have a look at a quick example.
We have our S3 bucket located here in London,
and again, we've got our users geographically distributed,
and just imagine all these users need to upload some files into this S3
bucket. So instead of uploading directly to the bucket in London,
which could take a long time for some of these users who are furthest away,
instead, they can upload their file into the CloudFront edge location.
And from there,
the edge location will transfer that file into the London-based bucket,
using the fast networks within AWS.
And this is a much faster way for these users to upload their files into
S3. So let's take a look at some of our exam tips.
So we've got edge locations,
and this is the location where the content will be cached and it's separate to
an AWS region or availability zone. We also have the origin,
and this is the origin of the files that the distribution will serve.
And it can be an S3 bucket, an EC2 instance,
or an elastic load balancer or route 53 address.
And it can also be a server in your own data center.
And the CloudFront distribution is the name given to the origin and
configuration settings for the content that we are distributing.
Remember that edge locations are not just read only,
and you can write to them as well. For example,
you can put an object onto them as well.
And this is exactly what's happening with S3 transfer acceleration.
So CloudFront edge locations are utilized by S3 transfer
acceleration to reduce latency for S3 uploads,
and you can upload your files quickly over long distances using
S3 transfer acceleration.
And finally objects are cached within CloudFront for the life of the TTL
or time to live. The default time to live is one day.
And you can clear out the cached objects if you are updating your website more
frequently than once a day, but you will be charged for doing so.
So that is The end of this lecture. And in our next lecture,
we're going to be setting up our own CloudFront distribution.
So please join me in the next lecture. If you've got time. Thank you.